# NodeJs Interview Questions:

## A. What is Node.js?

### 1. What is Node.js?

Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform, back-end JavaScript runtime environment that runs on the V8 engine and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser.

### 2. What is the difference between a frameworks and a runtime enivronment?

A framework is a set of tools and libraries that are used to develop applications. A runtime environment is a set of tools and libraries that are used to run the code written in a framework.

### 3. What is the difference between Node.js and Express.js?

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment that runs on the V8 engine. Express.js is a web framework for Node.js.

### 4. What is the difference between client side(Browser) and server side(Node.js)?

Browsers are used to render HTML pages and CSS styles, and handle interaction with the user. Server-side is used to handle requests from the user and send responses to the user, interact with the database, and perform other tasks.

## B. Main features of Node.js?

### 1. What is the 7 main features of Node.js?

1. Single-threaded
2. Asynchronous
3. Event-driven
4. V8 engine
5. Cross-platform
6. NPM
7. Realtime capabilties

### 2. Single-threaded vs Multi-threaded

It can execute only one task at a time (As oposed to multi-threaded programming, that can cause dead-locking issues if not handled properly).

### 3. Asynchronous vs Synchronous

It allows to execute multiple tasks at the same time, A single thread can execute a task adn not wait for the task to finish to start the next task. (As opposed to synchronous that executes one task after another).

### 4. Events, Emitters, Event queue, Event loop & Event drivern:

The `Event` is a signal generated by an `Event emitter`. it then is stored in an `Event queue`. Then node will pick one event at a time and execute it's `Event handler`. This process is called the `Event loop`.

### 5. Advantages of Node.js

1. Asynchronous: Enables handling of multiple concurrent requests and non blocking execution of thread
2. V8 engine: Enables high performance and low latency
3. Event-Driven: Efficient handling events, great for bidi communication like in chat apps.
4. Cross-Platform: Enables running on multiple platforms
5. NPM: Enables package management with a great variety of libraries

### 6. When to use Node.js?

1. real-time applications
2. server-side scripting
3. Excellent for lightweight and scalable RESTful APIs
4. Well-suited for microservices-based architectures.

### 7. When not to use Node.js?

CPU intensive tasks that requires multiple threads, for example:

1. Background processing
2. Database operations
3. Networking
4. File operations
5. Image/video/audio processing
6. Machine learning
7. Game development

## C. Setup & Modules

### 1. Setup

Install Node.js and NPM and create a new project, then run:

```
$ npm init -y
```

### 2. What is `package.json`:

Contais metadata about the project, including the project name, version, dependencies, scripts, etc.

### 3. What is module:

A module contains a specific functionality that can be easily reused within a Node.js application.
Ideally in Node.js, a JavaScript file is a module.

### 4. How to export a module:

```
module.exports = function f1(){}
// or
exports.f2 = function(){}
```

### 5. How to import a module:

```
const module = require('module');
const f2 = module('f2);
```

### 6. What ismodule wrapper fucntion:

In Node.js each module is wrapped in a function that is generated auomatically before it is executed.

```
(function (exports, require, module, __filename, __dirname) {
    // code here
});
```

### 7. type of module:

1. Built-in modules (Core modules like fs, http, path...)
2. Local modules (JS files created by the developer)
3. Third-party modules (Installed using npm)
